Ch 3 Research Methodology

3.1 Research design

	// Presents the design to which the study was patterned (i.e. Descriptive, Normative, Correlational Study, 
2-Pair Group Experimental Design, etc.

	The research design of this study used the Experimental research design. The aim of the experiment is to determine if the system is a reliable and
accurate approach in the deliverance of gathered best deals in the selected OSWs. With the used of this design, the researchers have reached and come up with
the answers to the questions stated in the Statement of the problem.

	In determining the overall performance of the system in gathering the best deals, the researchers lead an experiment. The respondents, described in the Research
instrument in Instrumentation, compare the system's actual output and the expected result by the researchers to measure the system's performance in accuracy, reliability,
and consistency in getting the best deals.  

3.2 Sources of data

	// Presents the entire population from which the representative group was extracted.
Description of Respondents. It paints a picture of the characteristics of the research participants to whom data was obtained.
Presents the technique utilized in the selection of samples. (Sampling Technique)

	The respondents are both the researchers and searching online shoppers. The respondents used search terms to train
the system and is given a set of possible best deals. The respondents then evaluated the accuracy and reliability of the 
system. 

3.3 Instrumentation
	3.3.1 Software/hardware tools
		3.3.1.1 system architecture
			// Presents the overall idea of the proposed technology including but not limited to the development 
		tools and programming language used (e.g. In case the proposal is text to voice, restrictions as to the type 
		of input ÅEword/root word or sentence.

			Data Mining
				The product keyword will be used in order to get the specific items from OSWs. A-Priori algorithm is used to maintain the relevance and consistency of the products that is searched. Each product will have its information extracted and stored in database.

			Data Analysis
				After the several amounts of relevant items are stored, the items will be placed in two sets. One set will be sorted starting with the lowest price and another set will be sorted according to the Bayesian estimate of the reviews.

		3.3.1.2 Development details
			//Discusess how the system will be developed. Present all tools that was used in the implementation.
			The researcher's will use the following tools in order to develop the system:
		 	
			Python. A multi-paradigm programming language with high-level data structures and highly readable syntax that can be used on most platforms. This language will be used to create the backend for the system.

			Django Framework. A server-side web framework written in Python which will be used to create the user-interface for the system.

			Scrapy. A web crawling framework written in Python. This will be used to crawl and extract data from various data sources.

			Diffbot API. Application program interface that will be used to extract specific data from a site.

	3.3.2 Research instrument
	
		// Presents the tools used in gathering data, usually in the form of Survey Questionnaires or Experiment Paper. 
	The software/system is not an instrument rather it is the object to which the instrument is used/applied.
		The following are the procedure that the researchers used in gathering data:
			1. The respondents used search terms derived from their desired online shop product (OSP) and used it for training the system. A separate consistent set
		of search terms are used for testing and training the system.
			2. The consistent set of search terms that the researchers used for training the system is used to evaluate the consistency and reliability of the system.
			3. Both the respondents' and consistent set of search terms are used and evaluated for the evaluation of the accuracy in getting the 'best deals'.
3.4 Data Generation

	// Narrative explanation detailing the step-by-step courses of action done in order to obtain the data.

	The following are the procedures in gathering data used by the researchers for the study:
		
	1. Software related data
		1.1. 15 data sets per OSW each for a total of 45 datasets were gathered will be stored in a database.
		1.2. The data acquired from the 4 OSWs are then further reduced and extracted only the best out of all the data.
		1.3. The data sets of 'best deals' are sorted according to the respondent's preference and finally displayed.
	
	2. Survey & testing data
		2.1. A regression tests of 50 unique search terms are used as testing data sets. The testing data sets are then
		evaulated for accuracy in getting the extracted best data sets.
		2.2. Repeated the 50 regression test given the same data sets for the testing of reliability of extracted best data sets.

3.5 Data Analysis

	// Presents the statistical tools used in manipulation the data.
	The method of Bayesian Approximation is used for evaluation of the ranking in the 'scraped' data sets.

	// insert here the fancy variable letters and their meaning 

	