Abstract

	Data mining is 

Chapter 1

1.1 Introduction

	In the fast-paced modern world, where technology progresses rampantly, we try to keep
up with today's trends as well as needs. With the rise of technology, clinging unto technology makes our lives 
easier, and some experts say that the internet can now be consider a need along with food and shelter 
[Roper Starch Worldwide and America Online, Inc., 1998]. Everything is being digitalized as for our communication 
and work-processes, and with the use of the internet and its rapid development, delivery systems are getting 
more and more popular along side of online shopping websites (OSW). With that being said, it has a great affect 
on us, Filipinos, especially modern Filipina buy products on the internet through OSW. 

	Most people all over the Philippines have access to the internet and they are still growing in numbers
but there's a problem, how can we diminish the hardwork process of search through many OSWs just to get the best 
deals? As a Filipino, I'm used to seeing my mother go through many store just to get the optimal price that  
fits in our budget, sometimes, we even come to a point of bargaining or asking the store to lower the price
if we're going to buy bulk of their products. Users would search for many websites to compare and analyze what is
the best for their searched similar products, weighing in the reviews, quantity, and even quality just to make sure
that they're making a good decision upon purchasing such product. Therefore, the researchers decided to develop a system
to help with troubled online shoppers (OS).

1.2 Background of the Study

	Most Filipino shoppers have a hard time jumping to another store into other store just to find the best deals 
of their wanted product, may it be a new pair of shoes, shining jeans, or maybe a newly released branded cap. As much
as we can, we bargain, bargain, and bargain. Most modern Filipino women would go to mall after mall just to buy off 
on-sale product which is also true for old-fashion mothers who would prefer to bargain just to get deals from their 
market suppliers. In today’s technological advantage, many shoppers prefer e-commerce as their mode of shopping 
[Kitonyi, 2017], primarily because internet is easy to access and buying is just a click away. 

	Filipinos like to bargain, since the old times, Filipino mothers would go to the market with a fixed money and
get much more worth of their money for. Just imagine the hardwork of going through and bargaining to many stores just
to lessen the pay for a similar product as well as avoiding similar low quality products. This is also true to online shoppers
looking for looking for a specific product in a online store, they would search many online store just to get the best
deal in there opinion. They would scan for reviews of the said product and sometimes to avoid getting scammed or getting less than what you expected. One of the most
common problem in OSWs is that there are scammers always present [Jean Magboo, 2014] even in the most trusted OSWs.

	The researchers plan to build a system that caters in the selection of similar products in which the user has to
decide to buy or not. Getting the data only from the trusted OSW to minimize cyber market scamming and increasing the
satisfaction rate of the users in selecting. Filtering only the 'best' deals in terms of reviews, quantity, and popularity
to get the most-likely product to be picked by the user.


1.3 Conceptual Framework

	1.3.1	Conceptual Framework of the System

	// insert accuracy related concepts

	TABLE FORM:
	input > user’s search terms, OSW. Process > search the terms at osw using data mining, filtering item to display the best deals. Output > Best deals.

1.4 Statement of the Problem

	This study aims to develop a system that gets the best deal from various online shopping websites based on user’s search terms. // getting // finding out the deals, algo // accuracy of the results

		1. Using the a-priori algorithm, what is the accuracy of getting the relevant data from online shopping websites? // insert in conclusion, the percentage of accuracy.
		
		2. How should the algorithm be devised in order to get the best deals out of the listed relevant product?

		3. What is the accuracy and reliabiity of the devised algorithm in getting the best deals?

1.5 Significance of the Study

	The system will benefit the following people:

		Online Shoppers. This study would benefit shoppers who wants to lessen their time on selecting the best deal.

		Store Owners. This will benefit them by being able to search how they would price their own products.
		
		Future Researchers. This study will be a help as a guiding reference in making a system related to e-commerce.

1.6 Scope and Delimitation

	1.6.1	Scope and Limitation of the System
		The system will mine data from popular retailer online shopping websites and will not include second hand online shopping websites, specifically:
			1. Lazada (lazada.com.ph)
			2. Shopee (shopee.ph)
			3. Amazon (amazon.com)
			4. Zalora (zalora.com.ph)
		The scope in assessing the best deals will base on the relevancy, availability, price including the shipping fee, specifications, and numerical reviews regarding the product. The product prices will be displayed in Philippine Peso.

		The system will not be affiliated in selling products and will only act as an recommender system for finding the best deals.
		
	1.6.2	Scope and Limitation of the Study
		This study will focus on the accuracy of the finding the best deals of a product selected by the user at the top online shopping websites.

1.7 Definition of Terms
	
	Data Mining. Process of extracting information from a large sets of data.
	
	Online shoppers. Product consumers that uses Online Shopping Websites as their medium for purchasing.

	Online Shopping Websites. Form of e-commerce that allows users to purchase commodities over the internet with the help of a web browser.

	Scammers. People who extorts or uses dirty tactics to gain information, power, or money.

References

	Jean Magboo, http://lifestyle.inquirer.net/157606/safety-in-online-buying-and-selling/
	American Online, Inc., https://www.clickz.com/internet-becoming-necessity-to-users/72138/
	Kitonyi, *insert site here in docx*


2.1 Review of Related Literature


	2.1.1 Comparison of ecommerce products using web mining (1)

		The authors said that one of the most important sources for all kinds of products is electronic commerce (e-commerce) and a great amount
	of techniques have been developed to match customer's behaviour to attract more business and participation of people. As the rise of many e-commerce
	websites available it becomes difficult to search and choose to buy a single product. [*insert name here (1)*, 2016]

		The authors made it clear that using web scrapping techniques to get sources from abundant OSWs to get the best deals and merging them in a
	single web interface will in turn save users time, money, and efforts to find the same product prices on different e-commerce websites [*insert name here*, 2016].
 
	2.1.2 Data mining in electronic commerce benefits and challenges (2)

		The main point of the paper is that the internet is great source of big data, structured or unstructured, that can be easily manipulated to
	suit many technological/business needs. To handle from customer's internal processes, vendors, markets and business environment data, using the 3
	most common algorithms: association, clustering, and prediction, in add benefits for e-commerce companies in merchandise planning, sale forecasting,
	basket analysis, customer relationship management and market segmentation.

		Focusing on the big data collected through various resources can review the application of Data-mining (DM) and it's importance with the use of
	cloud computing. The study evaluates certain challenges of DM like spider identification, data transformations and making data model comprehensible to
	business users. Saying that e-commerce companies having a large volume of data to easily manipulate can improve business in return will place them highly
	competitive. [*insert name here (2)*, 2015]

	2.1.3 Data mining methods for recommender systems

		
	2.1.4 Mining product reputations in the web



Shopping

		Shopping is the activity of trading goods and products for other goods and products. Simply put, exchanging a product for a more benefiting one,
	this can be; food, tools, money, ad etc. depending on your needs. In the early age of man, the art of exchanging goods took place in which leads to easier
	lives of the customers for they don't even have to hunt or gather the food themselves in which fasten the growth of many communities. Markets or shopping
	malls have been the main place of trading, but they're often in urban areas or in the middle of the city which can be, depending where you live or just lazy,
	can be hard to go to.

		As technology develop and as our understanding of computers and the internet as well as the remaining difficulty of going to the market place,
	landlines, the internet and trading companies gave birth to ticket booking and food delivery services, and online shopping websites (OSWs). Pizzas, clothes, 
	and pizza, can be delivered in front of your doorstep in a matter of minutes by the usage of the internet by visiting such OSWs. But bewary of scammers especially
	in the e-shopping category as they run rampant waiting for an user to be conned.

		As the danger of scammers aren't enough, one of the most commonly problem encountered by many users is the tedious work of manually comparing and
	searching of a particular type of product in many OSWs. Users have to go to multiple OSW just to type in the same keywords and is faced with many similar product
	in that OSW plus many more with the other OSWs. Reviewing the 'reviews', as well as looking in to the quantity, and the quality of the searched product come hand
	in hand which makes it hard for the comparison process thus making a decisive and long decision.

		Fortunately, 'Comparison of ecommerce products using web mining authors', have started a way for tackling this issue way easier with the use of Data mining.
	Studying the HTML code structure of international OSWs such as Lazada and Amazon, and using webscrawling spider to scrape out unstructured data and organizing them
	to a meaningful data. They let the user input search terms that will display the comparing pair deals, successfully lessening the user's time for searching manually.
	Displaying it in a single-view page for users to view and pick what they desire. However, displaying and adding a table of comparison for such products still doesn't
	solve the problem of finding the best deals a site can offer. Finding the best deals have to account the reviews of other users, quality, quantity, and availabity of
	the product. 

